Webhooks guide (#574)
liveblocks/liveblocks: docs/pages/guides/webhooks.mdx

---
meta:
  title: "Webhooks"
  parentTitle: "Guides"
  description: "Learn Liveblocks Webhooks concepts and implementation"
---

## Webhooks

> In this guide, we will simplify how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data real time.  Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will simplify how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data real time. Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your multiplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.
```

Reviewer: There are many double spaces. Could you batch-edit them?

> In this guide, we will simplify how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data real time.  Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data real time.  Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.
```

Are we simplifying or explaining? That would be the only place where we talk about it, isn't it?

Author: Explaining makes more sense here. I think i jumped between the two when editing but I agree with this 👍

### What is a webhook?
The main drivers of webhooks implementation are efficiency and observability.  Webhooks streamline collecting data between two connected services. 

Like an API, webhooks are a mechanism for a client to recieve data. The main difference between webhooks and APIs is that a webhook functions as an inverted API.  In essence, the architecture of a webhook is composed of the following parts: 
- You create and provide a client endpoint
- You configure which type of event messages to listen to
- The server broadcasts a message (event) to the client endpoint 
- You verify the payload from the event message and send a 2xx back to the server
 to trigger a task

In this way, webhooks provide a real time connection between two services.  While APIs are useful for obtaining data on a scheduled basis, they are not efficient for handling real time requests when there is a high volume of activity.

### Use Case

> In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms api](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)  to save data to their internal databases.  Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms api](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)  to save data to their internal databases.  Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability to implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. 
```

> In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms api](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)  to save data to their internal databases.  Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)  to save data to their internal databases.  Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. 
```

Should we capitalize API all the time?

Under the hood, we have chosen to use [Svix](https://docs.svix.com/) as a webhooks provider- Svix makes it straightforward and intuitive to enable webhooks from inside of the webhooks dashboard UI. They also provide additional measures to assure the that the webhook remains secure through verification. 

## Messages

> For each activity that occurs under the defined list of events within the Event Catalog a message is generated.  Messages contain the metadata for each event which you may choose to subscribe to.  They also contain  event data and a alpha-numeric identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each activity that occurs under the defined list of events within the Event Catalog a message is generated.  Messages contain the metadata for each event which you may choose to subscribe to.  They also contain  event data and an alpha-numeric identifier.
```

## Events

> Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client.  Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.  As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain.  Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as way to determine which events make the most sense.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client.  Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.  As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain.  Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as a way to determine which events make the most sense.  
```

The Event Catalog provides a list of events available for subscription, along with their schema.

An example schema for monitoring users joining a room will look like:
```typescript
type UserEntered {
	type: "userEntered"
	data: {
		roomId: string
		appId: string
	  connectionId: number // actor
		userId: string | null
		userInfo: Json | null
		joinedAt: string // ISO 8601 UTC // 2021-10-06T01:45:56.558+00:00z
		numActiveUsers: number
	}
} 
```

> and the payload of such an event could like like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the payload of such an event could like:
```

```typescript
const UserEnteredMessage = {
	type: "userEntered",
	data: {
		appId: "aasdbe234bsdf"
		roomId: "my-room-1"
		numActiveUsers: 8
		connectionId: 4
		userId: '1234sdgs'
		userInfo: null
		enteredAt: '2021-10-06T01:45:56.558+00:00'
	}
}
```

### Endpoints

> Creating endpoints is simple, and is done from within the webhooks dashboard for your project.  The only criteria for creating an endpoint is that it must be one that you control.  You also have the ability to test sending events to the svix endpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating endpoints is simple, and is done from within the webhooks dashboard for your project.  The only criteria for creating an endpoint is that it must be one that you control.  You also have the ability to test sending events to the Svix endpoint. 
```

> Once your endpoint is created, you can test sending events to it from within the `Testing` tab of the  Endpoints Dashboard. 

Reviewer: Could we find a way to avoid the repetition of "you can test sending events"?

If the need arises, you can rotate the signing secret from within the Endpoint portion of the dashboard by clicking on the dropdown menu located above the item named Signing Secret.  Rotating the secret will sign the message with the new secret and old secret for a period of 24 hours. This method of roation gives you time to update the secret on the client side, without losing any event driven data.

<Figure>
  <img
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/webhooks-advanced-configuration.png"
    alt="Share advanced configuration"
  />
</Figure>

In the event that your service needs custom headers to be set in order to work with load balancers or application servers, the Advanced section of the Endpoint configuration provides the option to configure these values, alongside custom rate limiting. 

From within the dashboard you also have the ability to filter events by date and eventType.  This feature is nested within the Logs tab of the dashboard and can be seen below. 

<Figure>
  <img
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/webhooks-filter.png"
    alt="Share filtering capability"
  />
</Figure>

### Verifying Webhooks

> Webhooks can have the ability to generate security holes, but with svix verification features this can be mitigated.  When you verify your webhooks using svix, your protect agains man-in-the-middle, CSRF, and replay attacks. Because of this, the importance of verification cannot be understated, and should be considered paramount in your integration.  For a deeper dive into why you should verify webhooks, the [Svix Documentation](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/why) is a great resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhooks can have the ability to generate security holes, but with Svix verification features this can be mitigated.  When you verify your webhooks using Svix, your protect agains man-in-the-middle, CSRF, and replay attacks. Because of this, the importance of verification cannot be understated, and should be considered paramount in your integration.  For a deeper dive into why you should verify webhooks, the [Svix Documentation](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/why) is a great resource.
```

> In order to validate a webhook with the svix libraries run: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to validate a webhook with the Svix libraries run: 
```

```
npm install svix
```
Then, inside of your application where you call the webhook:
```typescript
import { Webhook } from "svix";

> const secret = "<your signing secret>";

Reviewer: Should we display it like we do in code snippets where we mention the secret key?

Author: Do you mean like below: 
```
import { createClient } from "@liveblocks/client";

const client = createClient({
  publicApiKey: "pk_prod_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
});
```
and then this would then become 
`const secret = "xxxxxxxxx"`
for however many characters the client secret is? AFAIK it is not prefixed like our publicAPIKey or similar.

Reviewer: Yes... but not sure if it applies. Maybe something worth asking @marcbouchenoire since he designed those components.

FYI Marc, with Svix we're introducing a new concept of secret key that doesn't come from Liveblocks. What do you think we should do with it?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about having tooltips for non-Liveblocks keys since authoring them could be difficult (across two repos, and I'm not sure we want to keep a list of these specific cases outside of their uses) compared to the value they would bring (no extra "magic" info or links), I think using only the same redacting style with `x`s would be enough to fit in.

Author: thanks @marcbouchenoire

Reviewer 3: The key will "come from liveblocks" in the sense that it will be accessible from the integrated dashboard in liveblocks.io

// This is an example sent from server
const headers = {
  "svix-id": "msg_p5jXN8AQM9LWM0D4loKWxJek",
  "svix-timestamp": "1614265330",
  "svix-signature": "v1,g0hM9SsE+OTPJTGt/tmIKtSyZlE3uFJELVlNIOLJ1OE=",
};
const payload = '{"test": 2432232314}';

const wh = new Webhook(secret);
// Throws on error, returns the verified content on success
const payload = wh.verify(payload, headers);
```

This snippet serves as an example of how to parse one incoming message.  To dynamically verify the authenticy of a webhook, you would programmatically define the headers and payload as JSON objects and pass them as an argument to the `verify` function.

Though not reccomended, manual verifcation is possible and outlined [here](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/how-manual)

### Replaying Events

> If your service is unreachable, retries will automatically be attempted.  In the event that your service incurs considerable downtime (over 10 hours), you can replay individual messages from the Endpoints portion of the dashboard by clicking the kebab menu on an individual message, or you can opt to bulk replay events by clicking the main menu and selecting "Replay Failed Messages." . For a list of the specific retry intervals, see the [Svix Documentation on Retries](https://docs.svix.com/retries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your service is unreachable, retries will automatically be attempted.  In the event that your service incurs considerable downtime (over 10 hours), you can replay individual messages from the Endpoints portion of the dashboard by clicking the kebab menu on an individual message, or you can opt to bulk replay events by clicking the main menu and selecting "Replay Failed Messages." For a list of the specific retry intervals, see the [Svix Documentation on Retries](https://docs.svix.com/retries)
```

## Messages
For each activity that occurs under the defined list of events within the Event Catalog a message is generated.  Messages contain the metadata for each event which you may choose to subscribe to.  They also contain  event data and a alpha-numeric identifier.

## Events
Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client.  Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.  As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain.  Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as way to determine which events make the most sense.  
The Event Catalog provides a list of events available for subscription, along with their schema.

> 

Author: I need to run a local instance to share a screen shot here for the event catalog. It is broken in dev.

---
meta:
  title: "Webhooks"
  parentTitle: "Guides"
  description: "Learn Liveblocks Webhooks concepts and implementation"
---

## Webhooks

> In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data real time. Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product, to ensure that you are able to store and process Liveblocks data in real time. Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.
```

Reviewer 3: > In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product so that you can react to Liveblocks events as they happen.

What do you think? This feels simpler

Reviewer 3: > Understanding how to implement webhooks can make your mulitplayer experience observable, and reduce development time by eliminating the need for polling.

Liveblocks is observable, not the customer's platform. So I would suggest something along those lines:

Now that our platform is observable, you can use webhooks to reduce development time and the need for polling.

### What is a webhook?

> The main drivers of webhooks implementation are efficiency and observability. Webhooks streamline collecting data between two connected services. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main drivers of webhook implementations are efficiency and observability. Webhooks streamline collecting data between two connected services. 
```

> Like an API, webhooks are a mechanism for a client to recieve data. The main difference between webhooks and APIs is that a webhook functions as an inverted API. In essence, the architecture of a webhook is composed of the following parts: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like an API, webhooks are a mechanism for a client to receive data. The main difference between webhooks and APIs is that a webhook functions as an inverted API, you give us an endpoint that we can send events to. In essence, the architecture of a webhook is composed of the following parts: 
```

inverted API is unclear, what do you think about adding a sentence to explain what it means? / adding an example.

Author: good on clarification.  How generic do you want example to be? I initially had one in and removed since I felt the concept was straightforward- but an easy one I encounter during the holidays is online shopping + out of stock items---> subscribe to in stock notifications.   vs the polling i would be doing if that option isn't available. Did you have something particular in mind?

- You create and provide a client endpoint
- You configure which type of event messages to listen to
- The server broadcasts a message (event) to the client endpoint 
- You verify the payload from the event message and send a 2xx back to the server

>  to trigger a task

Reviewer 3: Maybe a diagram could make it easier to understand?

Author: Ok, I think this may sound better: 
>The lifecycle of a webhook: 
>1. You create and provide a client endpoint, which listens to event messages 
>2. The Liveblocks server broadcasts a message (event) to the client endpoint when an event occurs
>3. You verify the event message payload from the webhook service provider (Svix), and send a 200 response once the webhook has been verified
>4. You use the message payload to trigger a task 

>Steps 2-4 will be repeated for the duration you subscribe to Liveblocks events. 
We use Figma for flow charts so that is going to take me a minute to familiarize.  I'm happy to work through creating that flow chart, but probably will take some time in the morning.

In this way, webhooks provide a real time connection between two services. While APIs are useful for obtaining data on a scheduled basis, they are not efficient for handling real time requests when there is a high volume of activity.

> ### Use Case

Author: Ah, I see what you mean here.   How about: 
>Prior to webhooks, if you wanted to update internal data based off Liveblocks' state, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the [rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints) for recurrent updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted changes when they happen. 

>Powerful ways to leverage webhooks with Liveblocks include:
>- Storage Synchronization between room(s) and internal database
>- Alerting the client when a user leaves or enters a room
>- Notifying the client if max concurrency has been reached

> In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints) to save data to their internal databases. Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability to implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the case of Liveblocks, many of our users leverage our [rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints) to save data to their internal databases. Prior to webhooks, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the API, and there was no ability to implement real time updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you are interested in and react to them accordingly.
```

> Under the hood, we have chosen to use [Svix](https://docs.svix.com/) as a webhooks provider- Svix makes it straightforward and intuitive to enable webhooks from inside of the webhooks dashboard UI. They also provide additional measures to assure the that the webhook remains secure through verification. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Under the hood, we have chosen to use [Svix](https://docs.svix.com/) as a webhooks provider- Svix makes it straightforward and intuitive to enable webhooks from inside of the webhooks dashboard UI. They also provide additional measures to assure the that the webhook remains secure through verification. 
```

Is this section necessary?

## Messages

> For each activity that occurs under the defined list of events within the Event Catalog a message is generated. Messages contain the metadata for each event which you may choose to subscribe to. They also contain event data and an alpha-numeric identifier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A message is generated and sent to your endpoint(s) each time an event from the Event Catalog happens. Messages contain the metadata for each event which you may choose to subscribe to. They also contain event data and an alpha-numeric identifier.
```
Consider using the active voice

## Events

> Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client. Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section. As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section at endpoint or the subscribed events section when the endpoint is already created. As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain. 
```
The events that an event subscribes to can be updated in the Subscribed Events section when it's already setup
<img width="393" alt="Screen Shot 2022-12-05 at 5 37 11 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6947265/205757802-a703e955-9837-4353-9f30-3736ffb88020.png">

> Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client. Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section. As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events, and later evaluate which ones make the most sense to retain. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to identify and filter what is being sent to the client. Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default, but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section. As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events or subscribe to only the ones that a relevant to your use case. 
```
Slightly modified as we don't want people to promote subscribing to "all events" when they might just need a subset.

What do you think?

Author: yep makes sense as it would be added cost for us one way or another

Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as a way to determine which events make the most sense. The Event Catalog provides a list of events available for subscription, along with their schema.

<Figure>
  <img
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/webhooks-event-catalog.png"
    alt="Share webhooks Event Catalog"
  />
</Figure>

An example schema for monitoring users joining a room will look like:
```typescript
type UserEntered {
	type: "userEntered"
	data: {
		roomId: string
		appId: string
	  connectionId: number // actor
		userId: string | null

> 		userInfo: Json | null

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		userInfo: Record<string, any> | null
```

Author: should i still include these schemas now that we have the event catalog included?

From within the dashboard you also have the ability to filter events by date and eventType. This feature is nested within the Logs tab of the dashboard and can be seen below. 

<Figure>
  <img
    src="/images/docs/webhooks/webhooks-filter.png"
    alt="Share filtering capability"
  />
</Figure>

### Verifying Webhooks
Webhooks have the ability to generate security holes, but with svix verification features this can be mitigated. When you verify your webhooks using svix, your protect agains man-in-the-middle, CSRF, and replay attacks. Because of this, the importance of verification cannot be understated, and should be considered paramount in your integration. For a deeper dive into why you should verify webhooks, the [Svix Documentation](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/why) is a great resource.

In order to validate a webhook with the Svix libraries run: 
```
npm install svix
```
Then, inside of your application where you call the webhook:
```typescript
import { Webhook } from "svix";

const secret = "<your signing secret>";

// This is an example sent from server
const headers = {

>   "svix-id": "msg_p5jXN8AQM9LWM0D4loKWxJek",
>   "svix-timestamp": "1614265330",
>   "svix-signature": "v1,g0hM9SsE+OTPJTGt/tmIKtSyZlE3uFJELVlNIOLJ1OE=",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "webhook-id": "msg_p5jXN8AQM9LWM0D4loKWxJek",
  "webhook-timestamp": "1614265330",
  "webhook-signature": "v1,g0hM9SsE+OTPJTGt/tmIKtSyZlE3uFJELVlNIOLJ1OE=",
```

Reviewer 3: we've ensured that those were changed :)

In this way, webhooks provide a real-time connection between two services. While
APIs are useful for obtaining data on a scheduled basis, they are not efficient
for observing changes on a platform that has a high volume of activity.

## Concepts

### Messages

A message is generated for each event that happens within Liveblocks, as defined in the Event Catalog.  Messages contain a `type` along with data attached to it.  The message request contains headers used for security purposes.

### Events

An event occurs when a change is made to Liveblocks data. Updates to storage and rooms are common events that will trigger a message.   Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default but can be easily
configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.
As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events or subscribe to only the ones
that are relevant to your use case.

Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as a way to determine
which events make the most sense. The Event Catalog provides a list of events
available for subscription, along with their schema.

Events available for use include:

> - UserEntered/ UserLeft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- UserEntered/UserLeft
```

- StorageUpdated

> - RoomCreated/ RoomDeleted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RoomCreated/RoomDeleted
```

- Storage Synchronization between room(s) and an internal database
- Alerting the client when a user leaves or enters a room
- Notifying the client if maximum concurrency has been reached

## Setup

### Creating an endpoint

Creating endpoints is simple, and is done from within the webhooks dashboard for
your project.

Before sending events, you should disable CSRF protection for the endpoint if it
is enabled by default, and use the steps outlined in the Security Section to
ensure the validity of the message.

<Figure>
  <video autoPlay loop muted playsInline>
    <source
      src="/images/docs/webhooks/create-endpoint.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
    />
  </video>
</Figure>

### Subscribing to events

Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by
default but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the
Message Filtering section during endpoint creation. The subscribed events can be
edited later in the Endpoints Overview.

<Figure>
  <video autoPlay loop muted playsInline>
    <source
      src="/images/docs/webhooks/edit-events.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
    />
  </video>
</Figure>

> ###
>  Replaying events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Replaying events
```

platform for them to react to. In this sense, webhooks streamline the collection
of data between two connected services.

Like an API, webhooks are a mechanism for a client to receive data. The main
difference between webhooks and APIs is that a webhook functions as an inverted
API. A traditional API receives requests and sends responses, whereas a webhook
is an endpoint that you provide where we send events.

The lifecycle of a webhook:

1. You create and provide a client endpoint, which listens to event messages
2. The Liveblocks server broadcasts a message (event) to the client endpoint
   when an event occurs
3. You verify the event message payload from the webhook service provider
   (Svix), and send a 200 response once the webhook has been verified
4. You use the message payload to trigger a task

Steps 2-4 will be repeated as long as you are subscribed to Liveblocks events.

In this way, webhooks provide a real-time connection between two services. While
APIs are useful for obtaining data on a scheduled basis, they are not efficient
for observing changes on a platform that has a high volume of activity.

## Concepts

### Messages

> A message is generated for each event that happens within Liveblocks, as defined in the Event Catalog.  Messages contain an `eventType` along with data attached to it.  The message request contains headers used for security purposes.

Reviewer 3: `eventType` is not part of the message, it's `type` https://www.notion.so/liveblocks/Event-schemas-implementation-6cd40b8509c74cce882ab8e1ffec21a8

### Events

Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to
identify and filter what is being sent to the client. Each endpoint you provide
in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default but can be easily
configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.
As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events or subscribe to only the ones
that are relevant to your use case.

Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as a way to determine
which events make the most sense. The Event Catalog provides a list of events
available for subscription, along with their schema.

Events available for use include:
- UserEntered/ UserLeft
- StorageUpdated: 
- RoomCreated/ RoomDeleted:

> - MaxConnectionsReached:

Reviewer 3: little typos to fix here `:` and spacing

### Endpoints

An endpoint is a URL whose purpose is to receive event messages and trigger a
task based on the message payload. The only criterion for creating an endpoint
is that it must be one that you control.

### Use Cases
Before webhooks, if you wanted to update internal data based on Liveblocks'
state, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the
[rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)
for recurrent updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you
are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. Powerful ways
to leverage webhooks with Liveblocks include:

> - Storage Synchronization between room(s) and internal database

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Storage Synchronization between room(s) and an internal database
```

---
meta:
  title: "Webhooks"
  parentTitle: "Guides"
  description: "Learn Liveblocks Webhooks concepts and implementation"
---

## Webhooks

In this guide, we will explain how to use webhooks within your product so that
you can react to Liveblocks events as they happen. Now that our platform is
observable, you can use webhooks to reduce development time and the need for
polling.

> ### What is a webhook?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## What is a webhook?
```

platform for them to react to. In this sense, webhooks streamline the collection
of data between two connected services.

Like an API, webhooks are a mechanism for a client to receive data. The main
difference between webhooks and APIs is that a webhook functions as an inverted
API. A traditional API receives requests and sends responses, whereas a webhook
is an endpoint that you provide where we send events.

The lifecycle of a webhook:

1. You create and provide a client endpoint, which listens to event messages
2. The Liveblocks server broadcasts a message (event) to the client endpoint
   when an event occurs
3. You verify the event message payload from the webhook service provider
   (Svix), and send a 200 response once the webhook has been verified
4. You use the message payload to trigger a task

Steps 2-4 will be repeated as long as you are subscribed to Liveblocks events.

In this way, webhooks provide a real-time connection between two services. While
APIs are useful for obtaining data on a scheduled basis, they are not efficient
for observing changes on a platform that has a high volume of activity.

> ### Concepts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Concepts
```

## Messages

For each activity that occurs under the defined list of events within the Event
Catalog a message is generated. Messages contain the metadata for each event
that you may choose to subscribe to. They also contain event data and an

> alphanumeric identifier.

Reviewer 3: I am wondering what `metadata`, `event data` and `alphanumeric identifier` correspond to in a message model?

What I have in my mind:
a message has:
- an event type
- some data attached to the event

the message request has:
- headers used for security

## Events

> Messages sent through Svix each have an `eventType` property which is used to

Reviewer 3: remove mention of svix

identify and filter what is being sent to the client. Each endpoint you provide
in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by default but can be easily
configured to only listen to a subset by updating the Message Filtering section.
As a new user, you may opt to listen to all events or subscribe to only the ones
that are relevant to your use case.

> Alternatively, you can use the Event Catalog provided as a way to determine

Reviewer: I feel we could have more screenshots, like here showing the Event Catalog. What do you think @taylorpwhipp ?

Author: I have the event catalog showed in the editing events section.  It also has more events that need to be added.  Let me know if you want a separate screenshot of it in current state

which events make the most sense. The Event Catalog provides a list of events
available for subscription, along with their schema.

The example schema for monitoring users joining a room:

```typescript
type UserEntered {
	type: "userEntered"
	data: {
		roomId: string
		appId: string

> 	  connectionId: number // actor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		connectionId: number // actor
```

		userId: string | null
		userInfo: Record<string, any> | null
		joinedAt: string // ISO 8601 UTC // 2021-10-06T01:45:56.558+00:00z
		numActiveUsers: number
	}
}
```

The sample payload of such an event:

```typescript
const UserEnteredMessage = {
	type: "userEntered",
	data: {
		appId: "aasdbe234bsdf"
		roomId: "my-room-1"
		numActiveUsers: 8
		connectionId: 4
		userId: '1234sdgs'
		userInfo: null
		enteredAt: '2021-10-06T01:45:56.558+00:00'
	}
}
```

## Endpoints

An endpoint is a URL whose purpose is to receive event messages and trigger a
task based on the message payload. The only criterion for creating an endpoint
is that it must be one that you control.

> ## Use Case

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Use Cases
```

Prior to webhooks, if you wanted to update internal data based on Liveblocks'
state, you would need to set up a cron job to poll the
[rooms API](https://development.liveblocks.io/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints)
for recurrent updates. With webhooks, you can now subscribe to the events you
are interested in, and be alerted of the change when it happens. Powerful ways
to leverage webhooks with Liveblocks include:

- Storage Synchronization between room(s) and internal database
- Alerting the client when a user leaves or enters a room

> - Notifying the client if max concurrency has been reached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Notifying the client if maximum concurrency has been reached
```

### Setup

## Creating an endpoint

Creating endpoints is simple, and is done from within the webhooks dashboard for
your project.

> Before sending events, you should disable CSRF protection for the endpoint if it

Reviewer: Is it evident to people where to go to disable CSRF? Could we give some directions or add a screenshot?

Reviewer: ok saw you wanted to add a video below. SO I guess it will cover that?

Author: No it is something that is going to vary by implementation.  Disabling CSRF would probably be something that we would mention in a tutorial, as opposed to this guide since it would be framework specific.

is enabled by default, and use the steps outlined in the Security Section to
ensure the validity of the message.

> If your service needs custom headers to be set to work with load balancers or
> application servers, the Advanced section of the Endpoint configuration provides
> the option to configure these values, alongside custom rate limiting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

<Will insert video here>

## Subscribing to events

Each endpoint you provide in the webhooks dashboard listens to all events by
default but can be easily configured to only listen to a subset by updating the
Message Filtering section during endpoint creation. The subscribed events can be
edited later in the Endpoints Overview.

<will show screenshot of where to edit the event >

## Replaying events

If your service is unreachable, retries will automatically be attempted. If your
service incurs considerable downtime (over 10 hours), you can replay individual
messages from the Endpoints portion of the dashboard by clicking the kebab menu
on an individual message, or you can opt to bulk replay events by clicking the
main menu and selecting "Replay Failed Messages." For a list of the specific
retry intervals, see the
[Svix Documentation on Retries](https://docs.svix.com/retries)

<will video here>

## Security

Webhooks have the ability to generate security holes, but with Svix verification

> features this can be mitigated. When you verify your webhooks using Svix, your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features this can be mitigated. When you verify your webhooks using Svix, you
```

> protect agains man-in-the-middle, CSRF, and replay attacks. Because of this, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protect against man-in-the-middle, CSRF, and replay attacks. Because of this, the
```

importance of verification cannot be understated and should be considered
paramount in your integration. For a deeper dive into why you should verify
webhooks, the
[Svix Documentation](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/why) is
a great resource.

> In order to validate a webhook with the Svix libraries run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to validate a webhook with the Svix libraries, run:
```

Felt weird without punctuation, but not sure my suggestion is good

Author: I think this part is the section where Flo was going to edit

```
npm install svix
```

Then, inside your application where you call the webhook:

```typescript
import { Webhook } from "svix";

> 

Reviewer 3: @FlowFlorent to replace this with code sample for manual validation

const secret = "<your signing secret>";

// This is an example sent from server
const headers = {
  "webhook-id": "msg_p5jXN8AQM9LWM0D4loKWxJek",
  "webhook-timestamp": "1614265330",
  "webhook-signature": "v1,g0hM9SsE+OTPJTGt/tmIKtSyZlE3uFJELVlNIOLJ1OE=",
};
const payload = '{"test": 2432232314}';

const wh = new Webhook(secret);
// Throws on error, returns the verified content on success
const payload = wh.verify(payload, headers);
```

This snippet serves as an example of how to parse one incoming message. To
dynamically verify the authenticity of a webhook, you would programmatically
define the headers and payload as JSON objects and pass them as an argument to
the `verify` function. Though not recommended, manual verification is possible
and outlined

> [here](https://docs.svix.com/receiving/verifying-payloads/how-manual)

Author: @FlowFlorent Flo was going to add the updated schemas and then link out to them for more fine grained details.  I think for a guide, we don't need a conclusion other than "here's somewhere you can go to build this in an example"-- but we don't have that piece yet.
